README.md, before:

# microformat-node

A microformat parsing for node.js. 


## Install

    npm install microformat-node

or

    git clone http://github.com/glennjones/microformat-node.git
    cd microformat-node
    npm link


#### Use

with URL

    var shiv = require("microformat-node");

    shiv.parseUrl('http://glennjones.net/about', {}, function(data){
        // do something with data
    });


or with raw html

    var shiv = require('microformat-node');

    var html = '<p class="vcard"><a class="fn url" href="http://glennjones.net">Glenn Jones</a></p>';
    shiv.parseHtml(html, {}, function(data){
        // do something with data
    });

with URL for a single format

    var shiv = require("microformat-node");

    shiv.parseUrl('http://glennjones.net/about', {'format': 'XFN'}, function(data){
        // do something with data
    });


#### Supported formats

Currently microformat-node supports the following formats: hCard, XFN, hReview, hCalendar, 
hAtom, hResume, geo, adr and tag. Its important to use the right case when specifying the format 
query string parameter.


#### Response 

This will return JSON. This is example of two geo microformats found in page.

    
    {
        "microformats": {
            "geo": [{
                "latitude": 37.77,
                "longitude": -122.41
            }, {
                "latitude": 37.77,
                "longitude": -122.41
            }]
        },
        "parser-information": {
            "name": "Microformat Shiv",
            "version": "0.2.4",
            "page-title": "geo 1 - extracting singular and paired values test",
            "time": "-140ms",
            "page-http-status": 200,
            "page-url": "http://ufxtract.com/testsuite/geo/geo1.htm"
        }
    }
    


#### Querying demo server.

Start the server binary:

    $ bin/microformat-node

Then visit the server URL

    http://localhost:8888/

#### Using the server API    

You need to provide the url of the web page use wish to parse and the format(s) you wish to parse 
as a single value or a comma delimited list: 


    GET http://localhost:8888/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fufxtract.com%2Ftestsuite%2Fhcard%2Fhcard1.htm&format=hCard

You can also use the hash # fragment element of a url to target an only part of a HTML page. 
The hash is used to target the HTML element with the same id. 

#### Viewing the unit tests

The module inculdes a page which runs the ufxtract microfomats unit test suite. 

    http://localhost:8888/unit-tests/


## Notes for Windows install.

microformat-node using a module called 'jsdom' which in turn uses 'contextify' that requires native code build.

There are a couple of things you normally need to do to compile node code on Windows.

1. Install python 2.6 or 2.7, the build scripts use it.
2. Run npm inside a Visual Studio shell, so for me,
     Start->Programs->Microsoft Visual Studio 2010->Visual Studio
Tools->Visual Studio Command Prompt

If you have the standard release of node it will probably be x86 rather
than x64, for x64 there is a different Visual Studio shell but usally in same
place.

Commit message:

Updated with contributors and license

README.md, after:

# microformat-node

microformat-node is a microformat parser for node.js. It is built using a well tested light-weight JavaScript parsing engine, which already powers a number of browser extensions. It currently supports the following formats: hCard, XFN, hReview, hCalendar, hAtom, hResume, geo, adr and tag.


## Install

    npm install microformat-node

or

    git clone http://github.com/glennjones/microformat-node.git
    cd microformat-node
    npm link


#### Use

with URL

    var shiv = require("microformat-node");

    shiv.parseUrl('http://glennjones.net/about', {}, function(data){
        // do something with data
    });


or with raw html

    var shiv = require('microformat-node');

    var html = '<p class="vcard"><a class="fn url" href="http://glennjones.net">Glenn Jones</a></p>';
    shiv.parseHtml(html, {}, function(data){
        // do something with data
    });

with URL for a single format

    var shiv = require("microformat-node");

    shiv.parseUrl('http://glennjones.net/about', {'format': 'XFN'}, function(data){
        // do something with data
    });


#### Supported formats

Currently microformat-node supports the following formats: hCard, XFN, hReview, hCalendar, hAtom, hResume, geo, adr and tag. It's important to use the right case when specifying the format query string parameter.


#### Response 

This will return JSON. This is an example of two geo microformats found in a page.

    
    {
        "microformats": {
            "geo": [{
                "latitude": 37.77,
                "longitude": -122.41
            }, {
                "latitude": 37.77,
                "longitude": -122.41
            }]
        },
        "parser-information": {
            "name": "Microformat Shiv",
            "version": "0.2.4",
            "page-title": "geo 1 - extracting singular and paired values test",
            "time": "-140ms",
            "page-http-status": 200,
            "page-url": "http://ufxtract.com/testsuite/geo/geo1.htm"
        }
    }
    


#### Querying demo server.

Start the server binary:

    $ bin/microformat-node

Then visit the server URL

    http://localhost:8888/

#### Using the server API    

You need to provide the url of the web page and the format(s) you wish to parse as a single value or a comma delimited list:


    GET http://localhost:8888/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fufxtract.com%2Ftestsuite%2Fhcard%2Fhcard1.htm&format=hCard

You can also use the hash # fragment element of a url to target only part of a HTML page. The hash is used to target the HTML element with the same id. 

#### Viewing the unit tests

The module inculdes a page which runs the ufxtract microfomats unit test suite. 

    http://localhost:8888/unit-tests/


## Notes for Windows install.

microformat-node using a module called 'jsdom' which in turn uses 'contextify' that requires native code build.

There are a couple of things you normally need to do to compile node code on Windows.

1. Install python 2.6 or 2.7, as the build scripts use it.
2. Run npm inside a Visual Studio shell, so for me,
     Start->Programs->Microsoft Visual Studio 2010->Visual Studio
Tools->Visual Studio Command Prompt

If you have the standard release of node it will probably be x86 rather
than x64, for x64 there is a different Visual Studio shell but usally in same
place.


## Support or Contact

Having trouble with microformat-node? Please raise an issue at: https://github.com/glennjones/microformat-node/issues

## Authors and Contributors

This project uses a refactored/rebuilt version of the Mozilla Operator Extension which Mozilla open sourced under the Mozilla Public License. It is currently maintained by Glenn Jones, but I would like to thank the authors and contributors of the original source code from which this project is derived. Michael Kaply, Andy Mitchell, Elias Torres, Alex Faaborg, David I. Lehn and Keith Alexander.

## License

Portions created by Glenn Jones are Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Glenn Jones. All Rights Reserved. License under MPL, GPL and LGPL. See the license.txt file within the project source
